Review 'Define install strategy' (#8117)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/progressive-web-apps/define-install-strategy/index.md

  - demianrenzulli
  - petelepage
date: 2020-05-12
updated: 2022-06-13
description: |
  Best practices for combining different installation offerings to increase installation rates and avoid platform competition and cannibalization.
tags:
  - progressive-web-apps
---

In the past, app installation was only possible in the context of platform-specific applications. Today, modern web apps offer installable experiences that provide the same level of integration and reliability as platform-specific apps.

You can achieve this in different ways:

- Installing the PWA [from the browser](/customize-install/).
- Installing the PWA [from the app store](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/android/trusted-web-activity/).

> Having different distribution channels is a powerful way of reaching a broad number of users, but choosing the right strategy to promote your installations can be challenging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having different distribution channels is a powerful way of reaching a broad number of users, but choosing the right strategy to promote your the installation of your PWA can be challenging.
```

1. Write a function, such as `isPWAUser()`, that uses the information previously stored in the cookies along with the [`getInstalledRelatedApps()`](/get-installed-related-apps/) API to determine if a user is considered a "PWA user".
1. When the user performs a meaningful action, call `isPWAUser()`. If the function returns true and the PWA install prompt was saved previously, you can show the PWA install button.

## Promoting installation of your PWA through an app store

Apps for App stores can be built with different technologies, including PWA techniques. In [Blending PWA into native environments](https://youtu.be/V7YX4cZ_Cto) you can find a summary of the technologies that can be used to that end.

In this section we'll classify apps in the store in two groups:

- **Platform-specific apps:** these apps are mostly built with platform-specific code. Their sizes depend on the platform, but they're usually above 10MB on Android, and 30MB on iOS. You might want to promote your platform-specific app if you don't have a PWA, or if the platform-specific app presents a more complete feature set.

> - **Lightweight apps:** these apps can be built with platform-specific code as well, but they are commonly built with web technology, packaged in a platform-specific wrapper. Full PWAs can be uploaded to the stores as well. (This is discussed later in this article.) Some companies opt to provide these as "lite" experiences, and others have used this approach for their flagship (core) apps as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Lightweight apps:** these apps can be built with platform-specific code as well, but they are commonly built with web technology, packaged in a platform-specific wrapper. Full PWAs can be uploaded to the stores as well. (This is discussed [later](#promoting-lightweight-apps) in this article.) Some companies opt to provide these as "lite" experiences, and others have used this approach for their flagship (core) apps as well.
```
